- yen we don't have a lot to offer we're
not the new iPhone ten or something
veganism is not a technology that's
offering to make your life easier it's
an ethical burden with very real
political demands in your time and very
uncertain very dubious you know future
positive outcomes and this is kind of a
bell curve with people on one end the
early adopters on one end and the
laggards on the other end and this this
bell curve is something that we see all
the time especially with technological
innovation and adaptation to new
technologies but we see it with all
kinds of innovations it doesn't have to
be a scientific innovation necessarily
doesn't have to be a technological
innovation this can also be changes in
the way that we live and they tend to
follow a very predictable pattern and
that's why we see this curve everywhere
but most of us are still in that early
two-and-a-half percentage range and
that's kind of where veganism is at this
point and we want to think about what
can happen to make that take off the
type of failure we have to plan for is
precisely that of being an ethically
defined minority over the long term of
forming you know of organizing effective
modes of lobbying effective ways of
influencing the government if long-term
we may never do better than 2% we may
never do better than 1% in terms of
people who are ethically motivated
vegans how to be effective how to
influence the future course of society
knowing that in a lot of ways we have
less growth potential than some of these
pathetic cult groups Transcendental
Meditation groups or you know
Scientology or something like this
because fundamentally we have a lot less
to offer people yes aside from saving
the planet what is the situation in
Israel and was the situation in Taiwan
so these are I think the two unique
important examples of societies that
have large percentage of people who've
become vegan I don't think we could look
at the example of Israel and say that
the
these gains this expansion of veganism
could be transferred from Israel to
Egypt's next door right right away if
you say oh so if this is the precision
people were vegan Israel don't you think
in the next five years
Egypt is gonna catch up well do you or
don't you how about Syria on the border
right right away just asking that
question we stop and think Oh actually
there are a lot of really unique really
peculiar factors about Israel now
meanwhile in Taiwan we're talking about
a mixed Buddhist Confucian Chinese
culture but a culture where Buddhism
is one major religious voice among many
Taiwan has a I think the largest and
most vibrant vegan community or vegan
communities plural in the world okay I
think they're actually ahead of of
Israel however do you think that any of
the gains made in Taiwan could be
transferred to the Philippines no chance
the Philippines is divided between
Catholics and Muslims at this point
right those are the next Island South
look at a map it's not that far you can
say oh yeah yeah such a large percentage
of people in Taiwan have become vegan
and you know and this is the early
adopter curve this is the thing I drew
so therefore the next stop is the
Philippines right this little this will
take off this will take off in all of
Southeast Asia you've got to be joking
I think of that from the perspective of
someone who sees veganism as a failure
and if someone's going to continue to
fail or we're gonna continue to be a
small despised minority within Western
society 2% is optimistic I think but
we're a small despised minority that
happens to be right about some of these
issues and where we can lobby we can
have our voices heard in a Western
pluralistic Democratic Society we can't
have big impacts baños yen so just a
couple of days ago my girlfriend and I
watched a Gary francais on a video
that's exactly the same as all the other
Gary franciotti videos I mean no shade
no hatred but I mean I I turned on this
video and I was fast-forwarding through
it wondering is this exactly the same as
every other lecture I've heard from Gary
Francey Oh Nate or not and it was
basically the same Gary France Tony is
the leader in the frickin movement in
case you guys don't know a major leader
and when he got to this point I
commented to you I comment to my
girlfriend well
watching it one aspect of this guy's
philosophy that's really kind of sweet
and naive and touching is that he still
just really believes in veganism being
spread one at a time person-to-person
and he got to this point in lecture we
just often make optimistically says the
audience it's a Canadian audience he
says well let's say there are 40,000
vegans in Canada this year if just one
of you goes out you know and converts a
friend to veganism this year if every
one of us goes out and converts what
were forced to be then next year there
will be 80,000 vegans the next year
160,000 and you know he actually
projected on the screen getting to
millions and then getting to be vast
majority of Canadians so that this kind
of optimistic thinking we wouldn't we
both laughed out loud I mean it's not
really haha funny but we both laughed
you're in France Theo and I say this
this kind of optimistic thinking is
common to all ideologies and to all
religions especially new religions I'm
you know the Catholic Church may not
think they have the power to double the
number of Catholics in a year whereas
new cult groups do again and again and I
lived through this between say 1965 and
1985 Hinduism with the United States by
which I mean specifically white people
converting to Hinduism was a big story
it was on the cover of Time magazine it
was at every Airport there used to be
all these jokes from stand-up comedians
about being hassled by white Hindus at
the airport white people who converted
into them trying to get you also to
convert to Hinduism and the
Transcendental Meditation groups the
Hari Krishna's there were a number of
different neo Hindu Hindu groups to the
United States doing this and they did I
mean if if you have this preconceived
notion that new technologies new
cultural movements new ideas go through
these these early adopter phases they
also thought of themselves as being
optimistically in this early adopter
phases they were the first few
percentages of the population to convert
in what was going to be a mass movement
and it wasn't it failed but it's really
important to say I've said this on my
youtube channel maybe closer to two
years ago it's really
to recognize they actually got much
further than veganism has gotten to date
it's definitely in the United States the
osho followers formally incorporated
their own city in Oregon so you may know
this story there is some hilarious and
and chilling anecdotes in that you can
find documentaries about this within
YouTube so they called it Rajneesh
pardon me
Rajneesh Purim so you know the city of
rajin issues is a metonym for osho
they're they're one of the many names
used by the sky osho whom they were
devotees of and they did actually get to
the the kind of critical mass and level
of organization and level of affluence
to start doing genuine community
building activities within the United
States more than just creating temples
or what-have-you they really did build
communities incorporate them cities now
I'm not saying I'm not presuming that
that is the desired modus operandi of
vegans we see some claiming they're
gonna do it though we were just looking
at the new manifesto from direct action
everywhere there are compassionate
cities programs it comes pretty close to
Rajneesh a lot of their stuff is pretty
culty but a lot of what they're calling
for it establishing alternate
communities with alternate
transportation systems and so on there's
a lot to be right in to the vagueness of
their claims and their promises but in
terms of this imaginary slope that
you're gonna go from early adopter to
mass-market similar to the patterns seen
by some technologies it was easy for
white Hindus in America to delude
themselves into thinking that they were
the early adopters going up the slope
and this was going to become a mass
phenomenon the Hindu ization of America
and from their perspective why not from
their perspective they have a technology
that fundamentally makes their lives
better especially the people who believe
in transcendental meditation they do
believe in it as the technology they do
market it as a technology and vegans
likewise I think we do deserve to be
criticized we may regard what we're
doing as a new technology that makes
other technologies obsolete but it's not
there's an e deck versus emic perception
here you know from a meat-eaters
perspective there is no sense in which
broccoli
makes beef obsolete I mean I may feel
that way I think that you passionately
but there's no sense in which the tofu
is gonna make a beef obsolete as a
technological level in some ways yes the
progress of veganism can be compared to
technological progress and in some ways
it can't in some ways it has to be
compared to a grubby little cult like
the followers of Osho who set up this
crappy City you know set up their little
their cult out in Oregon you do by the
way eventually got involved in some
illegal terrorist activities and
what-have-you
there's a whole thing's got correct as
is so regular the case with cult groups
things got out of control and arrests
were made and the the community was more
or less broken up and today that
community is a Christian run like Bible
Camp like yeah so you're missing out on
the facial reactions you're like oh but
anyway uh it's sort of like a day camp
for Christians because they they built
up all these facilities and they ended
up selling them selling the property all
right to whoever could pay the the
market price anyway yeah so there are a
lot of false assumptions here I want to
challenge this so what is it within
anthropology the diffusion s model that
mod vegan is referring to here has been
totally discredited it's not just
unfashionable it has been discredited
and it's interesting that those concepts
really originated in the 1960s looking
primarily at anthropological and
agricultural abstractions how technology
was adopt new farming technology was
adopted this this kind of thing but
today we think of this idea this growth
curve the early adopter phase and then
mass-market based primarily in terms of
digital technology and that is very
misleading now almost nothing can be
compared to digital technology this came
up in my book review of the book that
was called half earth I'm sorry I forgot
the author's name you can find that in
the book review playlist but that's an
interesting book and among the kind of
dangerous allusions is that this guy
presents the case that the whole economy
is going to behave like the digital
economy like the computer economy the
same way that you could have doubling
and quadrupling of productivity without
using more resources while actually use
fewer resources less resources being
more efficient that in the same way the
whole human economy was gonna behave
this way and therefore we would need
less and less land use and so on now of
course I'll arias Lee the switching to a
vegan diet is one of the exceptions to
this so as you do a vegan diet does make
us more efficient we use far less land
far less water etc but I don't know so
we're doing this on a wooden table if
you want a man manufacture wooden tables
doesn't matter if using wood from an
Indonesia or wood from Canada or
something the advent of computer
technology it may make the design
process more efficient they may make
sanding the table we're efficient or
something but there's no sense in which
you can say oh we're gonna use half as
much wood and make twice as many tables
next year thanks to digital technology
it does not work that way in a very
meaningful sense
nothing operates the way digital
technology does and this is an important
point in terms of this curve of mass
adoption of technology the functions
achieved by a computer this word
computer is already a little
misleadingly vague those changed
fundamentally for the 1970s 80s and 90s
there was a time when and I can remember
this cool people look down their noses
at computers as being just for nerds
well what did computers do at that time
what were the actual functions what were
the things you could achieve with a
computer then 10 years later the
computer was taking over the functions
that were formerly done by while a
typewriter obviously but there was an
early stage when you couldn't even do
that in a computer when you could do
mathematical operations and so on but
word processing was really not possible
on a computer in the early days so it
was taking over the functions of what
used to be a typewriter take people
taking over the functions what used to
be a telephone and then a big one took
over the functions of what used to be a
VCR you could play movies on a computer
so you can do this chart of the
population adopting computers but the
early adopters were using computers for
functions that are fundamentally
different from and fundamentally alien
to what the mass-market used them for so
you know the average person today owns a
computer and they use it to watch movies
use Skype make phone calls to their
friends for all social media
applications or what have you
however if you say oh this is a
situation where the early adopters
people were doing you know advanced
mathematics on a computer you know for
example
the sending a man to the moon the early
space exploration there had these
incredibly primitive computers that
they've relied on for complex
mathematics that human lives depended on
you know it's it's amazing with what
they could do but you know if you think
about who is using a computer for those
functions the functions a computer could
do in the period of say 1975 to 1980
that's still an incredibly small part of
the population and it's really
misleading to look at this mass adoption
because in a sense you can say it's the
same technology but it's the same
technology being used for fundamentally
different things veganism is not like
that and again I say maybe in a very
meaningful sense nothing else is like
that maybe these are unique properties
of computers and no other technology now
again diffusion ism was really
discredited within contemporary
anthropology it's it's an outmoded and a
much despised model but it did lead
people to think in terms of things like
the the spread of religious ideology a
new religion or what have you in these
terms in these diffusion as terms as if
this was a new technology being adopted
by people and again I mean I can say to
some extent there's some truth to that
but it's it's really this is why it
became a fashionable look at the spread
of Islam within Indonesia do you really
want to describe this as a new
technology being appropriated by people
it doesn't that remove completely the
human tragedy of what happened as these
people lost their own culture and lost a
lot of their independence and freedom of
thought and sexual freedom and this
complete transformation of the the
culture whether you're talking about
northern Africa spread of Islam in
northern Africa or the spread of Islam
in Indonesia yes you can try to code it
in these I don't know say - to represent
this as if the spread of an idea is
people adopting a technology but it is I
think you know deeply dishonest and
deeply misleading and obviously mod
vegan has only good intentions here but
likewise I would say it's deeply
dishonest and misleading to talk about
veganism this way right now okay come
back to point one we might as well hear
Gary Francey own a and him talking about
doubling and doubling how many people
are vegan which again an ideological
Hindu could have said back in 1965 back
when the Beatles briefly got involved
with Hinduism and that was big
News the Beatles were on the cover of
every magazine meditating and wearing
flower garlands and going to India it
seemed like Hinduism was really gonna be
hip in the white western world about 65
to 85 right think about any group of
people you know I mean you can think
about your own family but that's
misleading I've just been a student at
University of Victoria in British
Columbia and I knew this came up earlier
I actually knew a lot of my classmates
better than Melissa did Melissa had
classrooms of 400 people or something
but I you know I really did have pretty
small classes where I knew a lot of the
people if I just visualize one of those
classrooms you know from when I was a
university student and then I really
think about those people who you know I
have some face-to-face knowledge of can
I imagine 50% of that class becoming
vegan within the next 10 years you know
there's that guy's the guy and if I'm
just being awesome so but I've just
think about those people I know you know
maybe one or two of them would become
vegan but even that would be a surprise
and no I can't imagine this whole
classroom becoming vegan I can't more I
can't imagine half of them becoming
vegan and all of them have spent a
couple of years talking to me and some
of them looking at my youtube channel or
what have you you know it's not it's not
a new idea I wouldn't British Columbia
and living in a city where veganism is
visible I mean this kind of human
calculus is is very humbling I think to
these these ideological claims I don't
believe my own family members are gonna
become vegan but I mean that can be
misleading you may be related to people
who have a lot in common with you so
maybe within your own family you do feel
a lot of your relatives you know can
become vegan you're very optimistic that
way but whether you think about your
co-workers at the workplace or people
who happen to be assigned to the same
class with you in high school
there people have to be assigned the
same class to you in university I was
sitting in university classrooms the
people who were doing Asian Studies
these were disproportionately people who
are very familiar with the history
culture and languages of Asia people who
are studying Buddhism and Hinduism and
things like that a few you know these
were if anything you might think I'd
have a ludicrously optimistic a few of
this based on just who was in the
classroom me but I don't I look at them
you know just in my own mind's eye
looking back at that classroom and
people I study with I don't even know if
there's one person in that classroom who
has the potential to become vegan and
computer tech know
Mogi is not like that converting to
Islam is not like that I mean it may
sound strangely they don't have what it
takes you know to be vegan but that's
that's really what I mean and I'm really
being sincere in in saying that um so as
misleading as it is again if you were
living in the United States from 1965 to
1985 even in Australia I've heard about
these groups the Transcendental
Meditation groups in Australia where
they thought they were taking over
Australia because they were getting
white people to confer and donate money
this is another big factor that the
religions were an advantage their
religions have over veganism is the
donation side of the game because you
can get huge donations just by promising
people that go to heaven after they die
veganism doesn't have that edge we only
promise you you have a 70% lower chance
of getting heart attack
getting cancer etc but after you die
that's that's your problem we can't help
you but anyway it was easy for people
inside those cult groups to think this
is growing exponentially or this is
going through an early adopter phases
and the chart is we're gonna take over
the the whole mass market another
example sometimes that you hear these
things from people who are racist
sometimes not for people were just
sincerely concerned in Canada all the
time I hear from people that they think
the Chinese are taking over Canada all
right no sorry I'm currently living in
China this is being recorded right I
speak enough Chinese have no study the
Chinese claim for several years I like
Chinese people you know this is not this
is not my point
why do some white Canadians perceive
this because they see Chinese
restaurants on the streets
I mean Chinese restaurants I've
mentioned this in my manifesto video
what was the video hultafors
on community my vision festive video
community you know one of the one of the
sort of most low-key but durable and
impactful forms of activism for gay
rights and for veganism and for Chinese
food is just having permanent
institutions there when you live in a
city that has permanent gay nightclubs
that lets people know you know
homosexuals are a permanent part of this
community it just says hey we have a gay
community or we have a significant
number people were gay this isn't a fad
this isn't something's gonna disappear
this is also true of Chinese restaurants
now if you live in a city like Victoria
BC Canada or Toronto or mantra
or what-have-you some people just they
see Chinese restaurants everywhere and
they think wow the Chinese are taking
over well the Chinese are taking over
what are the Chinese taking over
minimum-wage jobs that have to compete
with McDonald's even then I would only
say maybe I mean I think if you look at
the market fundamentals I don't think
it's easy at all
for Chinese restaurants to compete with
McDonald's in Chipotle and to provide
their people with wages and retirement
benefits and what-have-you I think
that's a really tough racket I think
it'd be really easy to say maybe the
number of Chinese restaurants hits a
peak and then a lot of them are going
out of business where I just was there
were a lot of empty Chinese restaurants
in in Victoria BC it looks like
something to me that peaked in about
1992 and now a lot of them are going out
of business but the fact that there are
even if you live in a city that's full
of vibrant economically successful
Chinese restaurants that are paying
their employees minimum wage and
competing with McDonald's this way does
that mean that the Chinese are taking
over City Hall doesn't mean that the
Chinese taking over provincial
Parliament does it mean that the Chinese
are taking over the Congress or the
Senate or whatever the elected offices
are in your country I doubt it I mean
take a look at British Columbia's
Parliament or Canada's you know federal
parliament or the American Senate what
have you the fact that you have
something visible in this way at this
low level it may be significant that
some people like the Chinese food when
it's once in a while but it neither
means that the Chinese population is
taking over the country nor does it mean
in another sense that white people are
being taken over by Chinese culture it
really doesn't
and this comparison is sadly very
meaningful for veganism the fact that
you have successful vegan restaurants
doesn't even mean a significant
percentage of their customers are vegan
it doesn't mean a significant percentage
of their customers are becoming vegan it
can't be compared to adopting a new
technology it can't be compared to
adopting a new culture or a new religion
or anything else it's just another niche
in the free market competing with
McDonald's and where the same people who
eat at a vegan restaurant once in a
while may indeed be eating at McDonald's
once in awhile I was like I'm not going
to get into in this video and in depth
but you know that the delusion
that veganism is a superior technology I
think it also rests on health claims
that are shaky that are weak I wish I
could tell you that the health benefits
of veganism you only get by being a 100%
principled vegan but I think we all know
what's not true I've mentioned this
before at least have mentioned form
conversation my girlfriend but you know
I was um I was at this school and could
Ming and there was an American guy and
he had basically switched from an
American standard diet to a Chinese
standard diet I saw what he ate because
we were in the same school every day so
I saw what he ate for breakfast and
lunch every day he was eating meat three
meals a day but he had all the benefits
of a vegan diet I mean I assumed cheese
had disappeared from his diet and he
switched from eating steaks and and
hamburgers to eating a typical Chinese
style that were there little bits and
pieces of meat so it's radically less
meat but all the stuff that the vegan
doctors boast about you he was on high
blood pressure medication and he
suddenly had to stop taking the high
blood pressure he had all these health
conditions that were reversed and he had
to be taken off the medication so if
you've watched the monologues through
different vegan doctors they all boast
about that I wish it would be very
convenient for me if you only got those
health benefits from being an
ideologically consistent ethical vegan
but you don't you can get those health
benefits by eliminating dairy and cheese
from your diet and by eating a reduce
Italian diet or what have you so
regarding this as a technology again I
mean instead you could just stop eating
at McDonald's and start eating at the
local Chinese restaurant or what have
you this is this is another element of
this that is misleading
now finally I appreciate that maude
vegan mentions just one example one
real-world example which is Israel of a
country that is a high level a high
percentage of vegans a significant vegan
population but even there would be
really misleading to assume we're
looking at an inevitable upward curve
what is the situation in Israel and was
the situation in Taiwan so these are I
think the two unique important examples
of societies that have large percentage
of people who become vegan in both
Israel and Taiwan there are
extraordinary religious circumstances
extraordinary
military and political circumstances and
even extraordinary ecological
circumstances that have led a
significant population to become vegan
now Israel is incredibly ethnically
diverse internally this is not just the
division between Arab Israelis and
Jewish Israelis or between Palestinians
and and Jews or what have you
within the Jewish population you're
talking about Iranian Jews and North
African Jews and Eastern European Jews
and like British and American and French
Jews it is an incredibly internally
diverse fractious and fragmentary
culture it's very difficult to
generalize and say that this could
become a mass phenomenon within Israel
you know we have to be open to the
possibility we can't look at these
examples where they can't fail mentality
we have to open the possibility that
it's already reached its maximum in
Israel or that it's even going to
decline after hitting a peak which is of
course what happened with Hinduism and
many these other examples but further I
don't think we could look at the example
of Israel and say that these these gains
this expansion of veganism could be
transferred from Israel to Egypt next
door right right away so if this is the
percent of people were vegan Israel
don't you think in the next five years
Egypt is gonna catch up well do you or
don't you how about Syria on youth
reporter right right away just asking
that question we stop and think oh
actually there are a lot of really
unique really peculiar factors about
Israel now this includes the challenges
if you talk to Israelis about why so
many Israelis have become vegan there's
a unique role for the kosher diet and
Jewish dietary laws and maybe we don't
want to admit that to ourselves as
vegans maybe we want to think you know
all of our fellow vegans are vegan for
ethical reasons as you know a huge
percentage of vegans are vegan because
they got you know the doctor told
they're gonna have a heart attack if
they don't change their diet
the vegan for purely health reasons or
what have you well it may be hard to
imagine if you haven't spent time around
you know Orthodox Jews or Jews you take
those laws seriously there really are
Jewish people who became vegan because
they found it a simpler way to live by
Jewish dietary laws now you can
also of course meet Israeli Jews who
become vegan who have contempt for the
kosher dietary laws but believe me this
is an impossible to imagine for
outsiders factor in terms of why so many
Jews became vegan in Israel this was a
and another factor as a very large terms
of Jews are lactose intolerance so if
you're someone who's struggling with
Jewish Jewish dietary laws you can't
drink milk products anyway guess what
guys
that was the thin edge of the wedge for
why veganism took off in a culture and
in a religion that is actually
completely hostile toward veganism now
meanwhile in Taiwan we're talking about
a mixed Buddhist Confucian Chinese
culture but a culture where Buddhism is
one major religious voice among many
Taiwan has a I think the largest and
most vibrant vegan community or vegan
communities plural in the world okay I
think they're actually ahead of of
Israel however do you think that any of
the gains made in Taiwan could be
transferred to the Philippines no chance
the Philippines is divided between
Catholics and Muslims at this point
right those are the next islands South
look at a map it's not that far you can
say oh yeah yeah such a large percentage
of people in Taiwan have become vegan
and you know and this is the early
adopter curve this is the thing I drew
so therefore the next stop is the
Philippines right this little Bissel
take off this will take off in all of
Southeast Asia you've got to be joking
all right the extent to which Taiwan's
veganism is based on Buddhist
traditional culture and I want to say
this openly for outsiders may be hard to
imagine but in the same sense that Jews
individual Jewish people may be
disillusioned with Judaism and be
disillusioned with the kosher diet and
therefore adopt veganism in Taiwan when
I talk to serious like vegan activists
face to face very often they were people
disillusioned with Buddhism
disillusioned with what was going on in
the religion who became vegan for that
reason so it's not that there are such
Orthodox Buddhists that they become
vegan again that wouldn't make any sense
at all within Judaism it's not like oh
you're such an Orthodox Jew you choose
to be vegan but it's actually
sense of frustration with their religion
not living up to its espoused goals and
in Taiwan it was very often feeling that
Buddhism had become disengaged from the
ecological struggle but also from animal
rights and other concerns and seeing
hypocrisy and corruption and Buddhism
and then veganism being an alternative
that was not in those ways corrupts and
what have you so that's part of the kind
of religious psychology of people
adopting veganism in Taiwan but one
generation dies and is replaced by
another everyone knows this in Taiwan
the new generation growing up is way
less religious than the old generation
on its way out and the religion here
we're talking about is Buddhism
miscellaneous Confucianism what-have-you
so it's entirely possible we're not
looking at the early adopter phase that
Taiwan is an example of country that's
maxing out about now with veganism or
even in fact in you scrub it that will
then decline because of these unique
factors these unique factors that led
them to a high level of veganism guys I
think it is really dangerous to think in
a with a what's called they can't fail
mentality of veganism from this
perspective I will go so far as say
veganism can fail and veganism will fail
what we have to plan for is not gary
francais oneís fantasy of the number of
vegans doubling every year take over the
country or take you over the whole world
okay
it's not a plan for we what we have to
plan for is not mod vegans fantasy that
we're in the early adopter curve and
we're gonna become an absolute majority
of the population in no time in the same
way that cellular phones were there was
an early adopter phase back when they
were largely useless and then they took
over the whole population as they became
you know more functional more affordable
etc etc when they became more than just
a status symbol for the wealthy that was
an early phase of a phone to like that
the type of failure we have to plan for
is precisely that of being an ethically
defined minority over the long term of
forming you know of organizing effective
modes of lobbying effective ways of
influence of the government if long term
we may never do better than 2% we may
never do better than 1% in terms of
people who are ethnically motivated
vegans how to be effective how to
influence the future course of society
knowing that in a lot of ways we have
less growth potential than some of these
pathetic cult groups Transcendental
Meditation groups or you know
Scientology or something like this
because fundamentally we have a lot less
to offer people yes aside from saving
the planet I'm sorry to say but that
just doesn't motivate people the same
way that you know converting to a new
religion and being promised in mortal
life after death or being offered all
the benefits of community and
what-have-you that you get to that we
don't have a lot to offer
we're not the new iPhone 10 or something
veganism is not a technology that's
offering to make your life easier it's
an ethical burden with very real
political demands on your time and very
uncertain very dubious you know future
positive outcomes so you know with that
being said I love it I'm in the movement
long term myself and I'm looking around
saying hey who else's is with me not
vegan and I agree about a lot of things
I just want to put this isn't as a as a
Caboclos in the video the last time I
talked to her you know I pitched her a
couple of ideas including saying look
you know within Canada why don't we form
a special lobbying group just on leather
something like PCRM so PC arm is
Physicians Committee for Responsible
medicine they're lobbying in American
health issues linked to veganism but we
could have a specialized group just
lobbying government and doing public
education and outreach in schools and
across the board just dealing with
leather
I think leather is an example of an
obsolete technology leather has been
made obsolete by progress of science and
now Nike shoes are just exhibit that
leather and so on and we can try to
educate the public hey you know what
leather actually contains chromium
hexane it's bad for your health it's bad
for the human health of the people
involved in the manufacturing process
it's bad for the health of the cows that
are tortured and suffer horribly
I think leather is a unique example
where some of this technological
thinking thinking to reside obsolescence
works and it's a strong suit we can
press forward on however I think of that
from the perspective of someone who sees
veganism as a failure and if someone's
going to continue to fail we're going to
continue to be a small despised
minority within Western society 2% is
optimistic I think but we're a small
despised minority that happens to be
right about some of these issues and
where we can lobby we can have our
voices heard in a Western pluralistic
Democratic Society we can have big
impacts and there are tons of examples
of tiny minorities who have had big
impacts and you can watch my videos
about them I think that's the strategic
focus for how we need to move forward
and that any other notion of this being
a new technology that's going to take
over the mass market is ultimately a
dangerous and self-defeating delusion
about us yen